Welcome back everyone in this lecture can actually code along.
Three an example portfolio allocation and description of the Sharpe ratio with Python.
Let's open up a Jupiter notebook and get started OK here I am at the Jupiter note book.
The first thing going to do is import pandas as PD and I'm also going to use Crondall to actually get
the data we're going to be working with.
We're going to do work of a bunch of tech stocks like Apple Cisco IBM and Amazon.
So let's go ahead and create a start date for what we're going to grab from will say PD to date time
and then it's going to pass in the spring 2012 01 So January 1st 2012.
And then the 8 date or end date.
I'm going to do is PD to date time and I will say 2017 0 1 0 1.
So we'll just have 5 years worth of data from 2012 to 2017 and then we're going to use quando to grab
a bunch of data for the Sox.
So I'll say Apple is difficult to handle that gets.
And then the curve for that is just wickie slash Apple.
And then the 11.
So we just want it just that close column.
You could say just wiki slash Apple and they would give you back the 8 or 11 columns of data that contains
a bunch more information but we're really just concerned with the just so close price.
Still say they are.
They as equal to that variable and the end date is equal to end.
Now keep in mind that case quando doesn't work for you or your firewall issues.
We do have CSB files of Apple closed Cisco close IBM close an Amazon close for you so can go ahead and
grab those from the notes in case this is not an option for you.
I'm going to copy and paste this a few times and then let's go in and edit this.
So instead of apple here will say Cisco for the next one instead of apple there will say IBM in the
last will be Amazon OK.
And then let's go ahead and change this to AMC and this will then be IBM and so b c s c o do shift run
and the pending on your internet connection.
This may take a while but eventually what we should have are all the time series so here we have a basically
a very simple data frame with a data index 2012 starting date January 3rd and then adjusted close because
this is the first trading day of that month.
Okay.
So we're going to do is show you just a couple of review on metrics.
So for example if we want the cumulative daily returns for example it's just check out Apple in the
location zero.
So that coming back just a close $53.
And if actually just want the very first thing what I can do is just say give me a justed close and
that gives me back the number.
So this is the very first price.
So if you come back all the way up here if we start off and invest some money here I can buy one stock
for $53 and at the very end of the day that one stock towards the end is worth $114.
So it's actually with my cumulative return but I actually want to figure out this is also known as normalizing
a price.
Well what I can do is I'm going to say for stock data frame in that it can make a list or a tuple of
the stock data frame's IBM Amazon what I'm going to say is create a new column in the stock data frame
called normal return and then set that equal to the stock data frame.
And then say the adjusted close price and then I'm going to divide that by the stock frame.
Thought I'll go see 0 and then call a just that close.
We just grab that number.
Let me zoom out so we can review what's going on here.
Basically for every stock frame that I'm doing I'm creating a new column called normalized return.
This is the same as cumulative daily returns where I take the adjusted close column and then I divide
it by the very initial price.
So I'm going to run then let's mixture that should be AAPL.
All right.
So if I take a look at my Apple stock I had a friend that shook the head of it.
I can see just the close and the normalized return.
So it makes sense.
The very first normalized return is just one because essentially you just get one of your money back
if you immediately buy and sell at the exact same price.
And if we check out the tail of this.
So if I say Apple tail I should begin to see the normalizer return at the very end of this 2.1 six return
versus a 1.0 return.
OK.
So you can see we kind of doubled our money here.
Let's not pretend we have some allocations in our portfolio.
So we're going to just kind of go with the following allocations will say 30 percent of our money is
going to go into Apple then we're going to say 20 percent in Google or alphabet.
Actually it's not Google off of Cisco sorry.
Then we'll say 40 percent at Amazon.
And finally 10 percent in IBM OK.
So those are the applications we're going to do.
So the way I'm going to do that is a nice little for loop will say for stock data frame Khama aloe in
and I'm going to zip together the previous two bull that I had here of the stock frames.
Copy that come down here paste it in and then going to pasan a list also be a tuple point 3.2 point
for point 1.
Remember these should all sum up to be equal to 1.0.
Now that may change for shorting but right now we're just going along and all of these so they should
all sum up to be a 1.0.
And if you're curious what's actually happening with the Zipp I can show you we can't just copy this
point.
And you call them or new cell here pass that into a listening and kind of see what I'm doing here.
So what I'm doing is each of these items is a data frame and then at the very end of this if you see
this that has the rest of that data frame and then it's attached to point 3 allocation.
So that's what this Zipp is doing.
It's making a list of tuples for us.
So we're going to do is using tuple and packing points say that stock data frame.
Let's create an allocation column and that's going to be equal to stock data frame the normalized return
which we created which we called normal return and then we're going to multiply it by the allocation
run that and then if I Cheka Apple da head what do we actually get out here.
Well now I kind of get a better idea of what my returns are portfolio wise so I can see here.
Might just sit close price my normalized return multiply then by my allocation.
So 30 percent of my money is an apple when that means I'm going to say point three times my first unnormalized
return of one.
So I can get an idea of overall and the specter of the portfolio what's actually happening here.
And then this allows us to easily expand on this idea by actually getting our position values so I can
see them right now at the very beginning 30 percent or point three of my money is allocated to Apple.
So if I just multiply this by how much money invested let's say a million dollars I can just say a million
dollars times my education and they'll give me the actual money in regards to the rest of the portfolio.
So it's actually code that up sunlight's save for stock underscored the F in and let's copy and paste
this tuple the stock data frame's again.
So for a restock data frame in that tuple or a list of stock data frames it can be a two pluralists
doesn't matter.
I'm going say stock data frame grab my position or create a column called position of values and then
that's going to be equal to my allocation.
Multiply that by well say one million dollars.
Make sure I count that right.
Six zeros.
So let's take a look at let's say Apple again we check out the head of Apple.
I can see my actual position values.
So let's break this down kind of all four of these columns.
Here's my just hit close price.
Here's a normalized return.
Otherwise known as cumulative daily return.
Multiply then by the allocations or how much of my portfolio's money is actually allocated to this particular
stock.
And then if you multiply the actual money amount we invested we get our position values.
So on day one I have 300000 or 30 percent of a million dollars allocated in Apple.
And the very next day since Apple went up those $300000 have now turned into a little more 300000 plus
about $1600 dollars and you could see continues rising and sometimes it drops etc. but now we actually
know how much money is in our portfolio as the days change along.
So now let's go ahead and create a kind of larger portfolio data frame that essentially just has all
these positioned values for all of our stocks.
So I'm going to say portfolio underscore Vau is equal to PD.
Comcast concatenate.
And I'm going to concatenate basically Apple's stock.
Well let's go ahead and let's go to make another list.
So we'll say all Paul's vowels.
And I'm going to say all pause vowels is equal to.
And then I'm going to pass in a list here.
Apple position values comma Cisco position values and just use tab to autocomplete this for yourself.
Then we have IBM position values and last one was Amazon position values.
Ok so now they have that list in the past in that list to be concatenated here.
And let's go ahead to make sure we specify access is equal to 1 so we run that.
And if we Chucko portfolio underscore Val at least the head of it I have all my position values so 300000
in this stock 200000 this stock 400000 100000.
These various stocks and I can see day by day how my positions are changing.
So how much money do I actually have in my entire portfolio.
Something we haven't done yet is we forgot to.
Well we forget but unfortunately the actual stock names aren't here.
It just has positioned values.
We can easily amend that though by just saying portfolio yvel core columns on this and set it equal
to Apple position and then the next one week actually can remember from here we have Apple first.
Then it goes to Cisco positions will say that will say Cisco position the next when we pass and concatenate
them is IBM position.
So let's make sure those quotes are closed here.
And then finally the last one was Amazon position instead of right in the hole where it's just a POS.
All right.
So now for a check up portfolio Val and how I can see Apple positioned Cisco position etc..
So if I actually ever want to get my total position well that's quite easy.
All I need to do is create a new column called Total position and well I guess to keep in line of everything
else so just say total POS.
So total position is equal to portfolio thou.
And then I'm going to take some along.
Access is equal to one because access equal to one is going to allow me to take the sum along this way.
So I should get a new column here.
And the very first of all you should be basically a million dollars so I'll check out our portfolio
again.
We'll see portfolio.
I'll check out the head of this and arrogancy a million dollars and then I can see day by day how my
essentially total amount of money is changing.
Now let's go ahead and plot this out.
To plot it out.
Others say that plot lib pipe plot as peel tea and then I'll say Plott live in line run that and then
say portfolio well grab our total position and then I'm going to just plot with the size of the fleet
this will be large enough 10 mate.
You can always mess around that.
Now let's get the title of total portfolio value.
So essentially if I invested a million dollars over time how much is that million dollars come to be.
And I can see here it's come to be almost around $2 billion is the 1.8 million mark.
And over those five years I invested well in these companies and you can see it slowly starts growing.
And if we want to check out just the actual positions themselves individually I can do that by saying
portfolio well.
And then just drop the total position column make sure it's a long accessible to one so it knows it's
a column and then I'm going to plot and we're going to say Figgs size is equal to go ahead and make
it the same size and buy.
We run that and I can see all my positions I mean zoom out just a little bit here and I can see how
the positions themselves have changed so we can see here the big grower here is Apple and we can also
see Amazon has a lot of growth.
IBM the pinning of how much we allocated as well as Cisco those may not have been the best choice.
So the question arises like how do we actually choose what's the optimal amount of money to put into
each of these stocks.
So for that we're going to calculate some portfolio statistics and then explore the Sharpe ratio.
All right we're going to do all of that stuff in the next lecture as a quick review of what we did in
this lecture.
Let's kind of just quickly sum it up.
Essentially all we did was we set a start and end date.
We grabbed our portfolio of stocks and then we slowly built up a portfolio data frame.
What we did at first is we created a normalized return column that's just taking each value and did
just that close and dividing it by the very first value.
And it just that close.
This is basically the cumulative daily return.
Then we have that normalized return what we can do is and multiply it by its allocation and these allocations
here are just chosen arbitrarily.
Later on we're going to discover how to optimize those allocation choices choices.
Then once we have those allocation choices we just have the position values by multiplying it by our
initial position.
In this case we again arbitrarily chose a million dollars as our initial investment.
Once we have that we have all these values we bring them together into a single data frame.
So then I can some of them all up to get my total position and I can plot it out and see how much money
have I made or lost over time.
And then we can see it for the individual stocks as well.
All right coming up in the next lecture we're going to calculate some powerful sophistic such as daily
returns.
Average returns.
Standard deviation of daily returns.
And we're going to use those to create the Sharpe ratio and the ratio is going to allow us to later
on actually optimize our allocations.
Okay.
Thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture.